



APPLICATION PROFILE FOR THE 
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION LOCATOR SERVICE (GILS)








Developed as Part of the Cooperative Research Study:

Expanding Research and Development on the 
ANSI/NISO Z39.50 Search and Retrieval Standard 

between the
School of Information Studies, Syracuse University
and
The United States Geological Survey
funded by
The Interagency Working Group on 
Data Management for Global Change







Charles R. McClure <cmcclure@suvm.acs.syr.edu>
William E. Moen<wemoen@mailbox.syr.edu>
Co-Principal Investigators

School of Information Studies
4-206 Center for Science and Technology
Syracuse University
Syracuse, NY  13244-4100
Telephone:  (315) 443-2911
Fax: (315) 443-5806

May 7, 1994


CONTENTS

1. 	Introduction

2. 	Background

3. 	Scope

4.	Field of Application

5.	References

6.	Definitions

7.	Z39.50 Specifications for GILS
	7.1.	Version
	7.2.	GILS Objects	
	7.3.	Communication Services
	7.4.	Z39.50 Services
	7.4.1.	Search
	7.4.1.1.	Attribute Set
	7.4.1.2.	Well-known Search
	7.4.2.	Retrieval
	7.4.2.1.	Schema
	7.4.2.2.	Element Sets
	7.4.2.3.	Record Syntax
	7.5.	Preferred Display Format
	7.6.	Diagnostic Messages

8.	GILS Core Elements

Annexes
	Annex A -- GILS Attribute Set
	Annex B -- GILS Core Element to USMARC Mapping
	Annex C -- Preferred Display Format for GILS
Records
	Annex D -- GILS Schema
	Annex E -- GILS Core Elements




APPLICATION PROFILE FOR THE
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION LOCATOR SERVICE(GILS)


1.			Introduction

This document describes an application profile for the
Government Information Locator Service (GILS).  The GILS
Profile includes not only the specifications for
ANSI/NISO Z39.50,  the American National Standard for
Information Retrieval Application Service Definition and
Protocol Specification for Open Systems Interconnection
(National Information Standards Organization, 1992) in
the application but also other aspects of a GILS
conformant server that are outside the scope of Z39.50. 
The GILS Profile provides the specifications for the
overall GILS application relating to the GILS Core,
which is a subset of all GILS Locator Records, and
completely specifies the use of Z39.50 in this
application.


2.			Background

The GILS is a response to the need for users to
identify, locate, and access or acquire publicly
available Federal information resources, including
electronic information resources.  Christian (1994) is
the authoritative document providing an overview of
GILS, its objectives, service requirements, and core
requirements.  According to Christian (1994), the GILS
is an overall service and includes information and
technology components as well as policy, regulation,
people, etc.  The GILS is intended to help the public
locate and access public information throughout the U.S.
government. 

The current GILS initiative builds upon a previous
study,  _Identifying and Describing Federal Information
Inventory/Locator Systems: Design for Networked-Based
Locators_ (McClure, Ryan & Moen, 1992).  That study,
which was conducted for the Office of Management and
Budget, the National Archives and Records
Administration, and the General Services Administration,
recommended that each agency establish a network-
accessible locator that describes its information
resources.  The study also recommended that agencies use 
Z39.50 as the appropriate information retrieval protocol
to achieve a distributed, standards-based Government
Information Locator Service.

The development of the GILS Profile is documented in
_Using Z39.50 in an Application for the Government
Information Locator Service (GILS)_ (McClure & Moen,
1994).  The GILS Profile resulted from the work of a
group comprising experts in Z39.50 implementations,
system implementations, and information organization,
and  representatives of Federal agencies.  The
specifications included in the GILS Profile reflect the
consensus of this group and input from a range of
stakeholders.


3.			Scope

The GILS Profile fully specifies the use of ANSI/NISO
Z39.50 by the GILS.  In addition, the GILS Profile
provides the specifications for the overall GILS
application relating to the GILS Core including other
aspects of GILS conformant servers that are outside the
scope of  Z39.50.  

This version of the GILS Profile focuses on requirements
for a GILS server operating in the Internet environment. 
GILS clients will be able to interconnect with any GILS
server, and these clients will behave in a manner that
allows interoperability with the GILS server.  Clients
that support Z39.50 but do not implement the GILS
Profile will be able to access GILS records with less
than full GILS functionality.

The GILS Profile addresses many aspects of the GILS
(e.g., intersystem interactions and information
interchange) but does not specify user interface
requirements, the internal structure of databases that
contain GILS Locator Records, or search engine
functionality.  


4.			Field of Application

The GILS Profile supports search and retrieval of GILS
Locator Records contained in GILS servers by users in
the Internet environment.  

The GILS Profile will be used by developers of GILS
servers.  It will also be used by client developers to
understand expected behaviors of GILS servers.  A GILS
server accessed using Z39.50 in the Internet environment
acts primarily as a pointer to information resources. 
Some of these information resources pointed to by GILS
Locator Records, as well as the GILS server itself, may
be available electronically through other communications
protocols including the common Internet protocols that
facilitate electronic information transfer such as
remote login (Telnet), File Transfer Protocol (FTP), and
electronic mail (SMTP/MIME).  The use of these protocols
or other communications paths is outside the scope of
the GILS Profile.

Once connected to a GILS server, users supported by
appropriate clients that understand the GILS Profile may
navigate through single or multiple servers.  GILS
servers will support searching (i.e., accept a search
query and return a result set or diagnostic messages)
and may support browsing (i.e., accept a well-known
search query and return a list of Locator Records in
brief display format).  Although the GILS Profile
addresses GILS servers only,  it is understood that
clients have roles in the execution of these activities
(e.g., browsing is also a client function in the sense
of how it interprets and presents GILS data).


5.			References

The following list contains documents that contain
provisions which, through reference in this text,
constitute provisions of the GILS Profile.  At the time
of this publication, the editions indicated were valid. 
All documents are subject to revision, and parties to
agreements based on this Profile are warned against
automatically applying any more recent editions of the
documents listed below, since the nature of references
made by the Profile to such documents, is that they may
be specific to a particular edition.  In addition, this
list contains other documents that can be consulted for
further information, background, etc.

[1]  American National Standards Institute. (1985). 
_American National Standard 39.2-1985 Bibliographic
Information Interchange_.  New York: American National
Standards Institute.

[2]  Christian, Eliot. (1994, May 2).   _Government
Information Locator Service (GILS): Report Information
Infrastructure Task Force_.  Available on the Fedworld
electronic bulletin board (703-321-8020) or by anonymous
FTP (File Transfer Protocol) via the Internet at
130.11.48.107 as /pub/gils.doc (Microsoft Word for
Windows format) or /pub/gils.txt (ASCII text format).  

[3]  Lynch, Clifford A. (1994, April 30).  "Using the
Z39.50 Information Retrieval Protocol in the Internet
Environment" [Draft RFC for Z39.50 over TCP/IP].

[4]  McClure, Charles R. & Moen, William E. (1994, May
7). _Using Z39.50 in an Application for the Government
Information Locator Service (GILS)_.  Available via
anonymous FTP at <ericir.syr.edu> as
/USGS/profile_background.doc.ps (Postscript format) and
as /USGS/profile_background.doc.txt (ASCII text format). 

[5]  McClure, Charles R., Ryan, Joe & Moen, William E.
Moen. (1992). _Identifying and Describing Federal
Information Inventory/Locator Systems: Design for
Networked-Based Locators_.  2 Vols.  Bethesda, MD:
National Audio Visual Center [Available from ERIC,
document no. ED349031].

[6]  National Information Standards Organization.
(1992).  _ANSI/NISO Z39.50-1992,  Information Retrieval
Application Service Definition and Protocol
Specification for Open Systems Interconnection_. 
Gaithersburg, MD:  NISO Press.

[7]  National Institute of Standards and Technology.
(1992).  _FIPS No. 173, Spatial Data Transfer Standard_
(August 28, 1992).  Gaithersburg, MD: National Institute
of Standards and Technology.

[8]  Office of Management and Budget. (1993).  Circular
No. A-130, "Management of Federal Information Resources"
(58 _F.R._ 36068, July 2,1993).

[9]  Open Systems Environment Implementors
Workshop/Special Interest Group on Library Applications
(OIW/SIGLA). (1993).  OIW/SIGLA Document #1:  Using
Z39.50-1992 Directly over TCP.
  
[10]  RFC 1521, MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions) Part One: Mechanisms for Specifying and
Describing the Format of Internet Message Bodies.

[11]  RFC 1522, MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions) Part Two: Message Header Extensions for Non-
ASCII Text.

[12]  Uniform Resource Locators (URL): A Unifying Syntax
for the Expression of Names and Addresses of Objects on
the Network.  (1993, October). [Internet Draft].  The
latest URL draft is:
 		<url:ftp://info.cern.ch/pub/www/doc/url7a.txt>  

[13]  Uniform Resource Names.  (1993, October).
[Internet Draft]. The latest URN draft is:
<url:ftp://ds.internic.net/internet-drafts/draft-ietf-
uri-resource-names-01.txt>

[14]  _USMARC Format for Bibliographic Data_.
Washington, DC:  Library of Congress, Cataloging
Distribution Service.


6.			Definitions

For purposes of this Profile, the following definitions
apply.

Client:  An initiating application. This application
includes the Z39.50 origin. 

Electronic Information Resource: Information resources
that are maintained in electronic, digital format and
may be accessed, searched, or retrieved via electronic
networks or other electronic data processing
technologies (e.g., CD-ROM).

GILS Core:  A subset of all GILS Locator Records which
describe information resources maintained by the U.S.
Federal government and comply with the defined GILS Core
Elements and are mutually accessible through
interconnected electronic network facilities without
charge to the direct user. 

Government Information:  Information created, collected,
processed, disseminated, or disposed of by or for the
Federal government.

Government Information Locator Service (GILS) : A
decentralized collection of locators and associated
information services used by the public either directly
or through intermediaries to find public information
throughout the U.S. Federal government.
   
Information Resource:  Includes both government
information and information technology.

Interoperability:  A condition that exists when the
distinctions between information systems are not a
barrier to accomplishing a task that spans multiple
systems.

Locator Record:  A collection of related data elements
describing an information resource, the information
available in the resource, and how to obtain the
information. 

Mandatory:  An element in a GILS Core Locator Record
that must have a value provided by the record source. 
The GILS Profile does not specify  which elements must
be present from the perspective of GILS servers.

Origin:  The part of a client application that initiates
a Z39.50 association and is the source of requests
during the association.

Profile:  The statement of a function(s) and the
environment within which it is used, in terms of a set
of one or more standards, and where applicable,
identification of chosen classes, subsets, options, and
parameters of those standards.  A set of implementor
agreements providing guidance in applying a standard
interoperably in a specific limited context.

Registered Object:  An object that is identified by a
name-to-thing relationship in which the name is recorded
by a registration authority to ensure that the names can
be used unambiguously.

Server:  An application that responds to an initiating
application (i.e., a client).  The application that
includes the Z39.50 target.  

Target: The part of an server application that accepts a
Z39.50 association.

Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):  A set of related
standards for encoding resource location and
identification information for electronic and other
objects.  Examples include Uniform Resource Locators
(URLs) and Uniform Resource Names (URNs).

USMARC:  An implementation of ANSI/NISO Z39.2, the
American National Standard for Bibliographic Information
Interchange. The USMARC format documents contain the
definitions and content designators for the fields that
are to be carried in records structured according to
Z39.2.  GILS records in USMARC format contain fields
defined in _USMARC Format for Bibliographic Data_.  This
documentation is published by the Library of Congress.


7. 			Z39.50 Specifications for GILS

This section details the required services available
from Z39.50, describes an Attribute Set for searching,
four Element Set Names by which the server presents some
or all the elements (defined in the Schema) of the
Locator Records, and prescribes the Record Syntaxes to
be supported by GILS servers for the transfer of Locator
Records.  


7.1.		Version

GILS clients and servers support Z39.50 Verson 2 as
specified in Z39.50-1994.  GILS requires support of
various objects, some of which are not defined in
Z39.50-1992.  These are listed in 7.2.


7.2.		GILS Objects

The following object identifier (OID) is assigned to the
Z39.50 standard:

{iso (1) member-body (2) US (840) ANSI-standard-Z39.50
(10003)}.

This OID is abbreviated as: ANSI-standard-Z39.50.

Several object classes are assigned at the level
immediately subordinate to ANSI-standard-Z39.50,
including:

	o  3   	=  	attribute set definitions
	o  4   	=  	diagnostic definitions
	o  5  	=  	record syntax definitions
	o  13 	=  	database schema definitions.
	o  14 	= 	tagSet definitions.

GILS requires support of the following objects

   GILS attribute set:  {ANSI-standard-Z39.50  3  3}
   bib1 diagnostic set:  {ANSI-standard-Z39.50  4  1}
   USMARC record syntax:	{ANSI-standard-Z39.50  5  10}
   SUTRS record syntax: {ANSI-standard-Z39.50  5  101}
   GRS-1 record syntax: {ANSI-standard-Z39.50  5  105}
   GILS schema: {ANSI-standard-Z39.50  13 2}
   tagSet-M:	{ANSI-standard-Z39.50  14 1}
   tagSet-G:	{ANSI-standard-Z39.50  14 2}.


7.3.		Communication Services

When Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is used as the
transport service, the specification for use of TCP is
found in OIW/SIGLA Document #1, "Using Z39.50-1992
Directly over TCP."  The use of other communication
services is not yet defined.


7.4.		Z39.50 Services

There are three Z39.50 (Version 2) services that are
required for conformance:  Init, Search, and Present. 
No additional services are required for conformance to
the GILS Profile.  Other Z39.50 services, however, may
be provided optionally by servers and used by clients.   

Standard Z39.50 Init Service negotiation procedures
control the use of all services.

7.4.1.   	Search 

The GILS application will support Z39.50 Type 1 queries
which are general purpose Boolean query structures.


7.4.1.1.	Attribute Set

The GILS Attribute Set is a superset of the Bib-1
Attribute set and consists of all Bib-1 Attributes and
additional Use Attributes that are defined for GILS
elements (see Annex A for the GILS Use Attributes). 
These newly defined GILS Use Attributes are well-known
and correspond semantically to GILS Core Elements.  The
GILS Attribute Set is a registered object. 

GILS servers must support a limited number of GILS
Attributes.  The required GILS Attributes follow. 
(Note: The GILS Use Attribute is listed followed by the
GILS Use Attribute Number and the corresponding GILS
Core Element):  

	o	Use Attributes:  Local Number (12; Local
Control Number); Author-name corporate (1005;
Originator); Date/Time Last Modified (1012;
Date of Last Modification); Record Source
(1019; Record Source); Distributor Name (2001;
Distributor Name); Index Terms -- Controlled
(2002; Index Terms -- Controlled); Local
Subject Index (29; Local Subject Term); Any
(1016)

	o	Structure:  Word (2), URx (104), Date (5),
Word List (6)

	o	Relation: Greater than (5), Equal (3).

GILS servers should never return any of these four
diagnostic messages:  "Unsupported Use Attribute,"
"Unsupported Structure Attribute," "Unsupported Position
Attribute," or "Unsupported Attribute Type" when a query
includes the combinations of required GILS Attributes
listed in Table 1 in Annex A.


7.4.1.2.	Well-known Search

To provide support for browsing GILS Locator Records,
there is a well-known search consisting of the following
GILS Attributes:  Use Attribute: Local Number; Structure
Attribute: URX; and a term of zero length.  GILS servers
that support browsing of records will create a result
set of one or more GILS Locator Records that provide the
necessary information  to allow clients to offer menu-
like displays of GILS Locator Records or other
information and information resources.  

The "Browse" in the GILS context involves only the
Search and Present Services of Z39.50.  "Browse" is used
informally in the GILS Profile, and it is not related
nor should it be confused with the Browse Facility or
Scan Service of Z39.50.


7.4.2.		Retrieval

This section describes the components and procedures
used by Z39.50 to return records in response to a query.
 

7.4.2.1.	Schema

The GILS Profile specifies a GILS Schema (see Annex D
for the  Schema).  The GILS Schema is a registered
object.  The schema describes and/or defines tagSets
used and an abstract record structure for a Locator
Record.  A schema in Z39.50 can be modified and may
evolve over time, and it is reasonable to expect the
GILS Schema will evolve. 

The GILS Schema uses elements from tagSet-M and tagSet-G
and defines in the GILS tagSet additional elements as
necessary.  The GILS Profile specifies tagTypes to
identify tagSet-M elements (tagType = 1), tagSet-G
elements (tagType =2),  and the elements defined by the
GILS tagSet (tagType = 4).  Another tagType (tagType=3)
is used to identify arbitrary string tags for locally
defined elements.

The GILS tagSet element numbering begins with number 1. 
Elements can be nested and the tagging notation (i.e.,
the tag path) will reflect the nesting. 

All well-known GILS Schema elements have assigned
numeric tags.  String-tags (i.e., text) may be used in
the GILS Schema to label those elements that are not
well-known (i.e., locally defined). 


7.4.2.2.	Element Sets Names

GILS servers will support four Element Set Names.  GILS
servers will interpret the use of the Element Set Names
required by the GILS Profile to identify the following
elements from the GILS Schema: 

	o	The primitive element set name "B" contains at
least: title, controlIdentifier, originator, 
and local control number

	o	The primitive element set name "G" contains:
all B Element Set elements and crossReference

	o	The primitive element set name "W" contains:
all B Element Set elements and bodyOfDisplay. 

	o	The primitive element set name "F" contains:
all elements available in the record.

The server should include in a retrieved record all of
the elements specified by the element set name for which
there is data available in the database record and which
can be encoded in the requested record syntax (e.g.,
some types of locally defined binary data may not be
encodable in a USMARC or SUTRS record).


7.4.2.3.	Record Syntaxes

GILS servers are required to support the following three
record syntaxes:

	o	USMARC -- an implementation of ANSI/NISO Z39.2
and maintained by  the Library of Congress

	o	Generic Record Syntax (GRS-1) -- defined in
Z39.50

	o	Simple Unstructured Text Record Syntax (SUTRS)
-- defined in Z39.50.

Annex B contains a mapping of Core Elements to USMARC
for use in the USMARC record syntax.  However, since the
data transformation is not fully reversible and requires
interpretation, the record source is responsible for
encoding the USMARC record(s).

The data in GILS Locator Records do not always map
clearly into USMARC records, particularly when agencies
add their own locally defined fields to the GILS Locator
Record.  This means that construction of USMARC records
is subject to local interpretation.  Therefore, GILS
Locator Records in USMARC format obtained from other
than the original record source should be considered
non-definitive.  The original source of the GILS Locator
Record can be identified by examining the Original
Control Identifier field of the record.

For interchange, GRS-1 records are to be treated as the
complete and canonical representation; SUTRS and USMARC
should be viewed as derivative records from the
canonical representation and as such are not as complete
or precise.


7.5.  	Preferred Display Format for Use with SUTRS

The GILS Profile recommends a preferred display format
for SUTRS records (see Annex C for the recommended
display format).  For the SUTRS records, formatting
instructions for a preferred display format is a concern
of the server.  

When the target transfers a GILS record using the SUTRS
record syntax, it will encode the GILS record formatted
according to the preferred display format, so that the
client may present the record directly, without
processing.  For SUTRS, however, the client should not
expect to be able to parse the record to obtain any
individual GILS elements.

When the client presents a GILS record formatted by the
server using the USMARC or GRS record syntax, it is
recommended that the client consider the SUTRS suggested
display layout in formatting the received record for
presentation to the human end user.


7.6.		Diagnostic Messages

The GILS application will use Diagnostic Set Bib-1.


8.   		Data Elements in the Locator Records

GILS Locator Records consist of a number of GILS Core
Elements that contain information to identify and
describe Federal information resources.  The GILS Core
Elements are defined in Annex E.

Annex A 

GILS Attribute Set


The GILS Attribute Set is a superset of the Bib-1
Attribute Set and consists of all Bib-1 Attributes and
the additional Use Attributes listed below.  Additional
Use Attributes that cannot be mapped to Bib-1 Use
Attributes are numbered from 2000 through 2999.  These
are well-known Use Attributes.

GILS servers should never return any of these four 
diagnostic messages:  "Unsupported Use Attribute,"
"Unsupported Structure Attribute," "Unsupported Position
Attribute," or "Unsupported Attribute Type" when a query
includes the combinations of GILS Attributes listed in
Table 1.  An "X" in the table means that GILS servers
will recognize and support this combination of
Attributes.


USE	   WORD  URx  DATE  WORD LIST  GREATER THAN  EQUAL
Local 
Number      X      X           X                      X

Author
-name 
corporate   X                  X                      X

Date/
Time Last 
Modified                X                     X       X

Record 
Source      X                  X                      X

Distributor
Name        X                  X                      X

Index Term -- 
Controlled  X                  X                      X

Local Subject 
Index       X                  X                      X

Any         X                  X                      X


TABLE 1
Recognized and Supported Combinations of GILS Attributes


As stated in 7.3.1.1, GILS servers are required to
support a minimal set of Use Attributes.  These are
listed first.  In the cases where a Bib-1 Use
Attribute's Name is used, the corresponding GILS Core
Element name appears in parentheses.

Required GILS Use Attributes
_Use #_		_GILS Attribute Name_
12		Local Number (Local Control Number)
29		Local Subject Index (Local Subject Term)
1005		Author-name corporate (Originator)
1012		Date/Time Last Modified (Date of Last
		Modification)
1016		Any	
1019		Record Source
2001		Distributor Name
2002		Index Terms -- Controlled

Available GILS Use Attributes
_Use #_		_GILS Attribute Name_
4		Title
1007		Identifier - Standard (Control 
		Identifier)
62		Abstract
2003		Purpose
2004		Access Constraints
2005		Use Constraints
2006		Distributor Organization
2007		Distributor Street Address
2008		Distributor City
2008		Distributor State
2010		Distributor Zip Code
2011		Distributor Country
2012		Distributor Network Address
2013		Distributor Hours of Service
2014		Distributor Telephone
2015		Distributor Fax
2016		Available Resource Description
2017		Available Order Process
2018		Available Technical Prerequisites
2019		Available Time Period -- Structured
2020		Available Time Period -- Textual
2021		Available Linkage
2022		Available Linkage Type
2023		Contact Name			
2024		Contact Organization
2025		Contact Street Address
2026		Contact City
2027		Contact State
2028		Contact Zip Code
2029		Contact Country
2030		Contact Network Address
2031		Contact Hours of Service
2032		Contact Telephone
2033		Contact Fax
2034		Agency Program
2035		Sources of Data
2036		Thesaurus
2037		Methodology
2038		Bounding Rectangle -- Western-most
2039		Bounding Rectangle -- Eastern-most
2040		Bounding Rectangle -- Northern-most
2041		Bounding Rectangle -- Southern-most
2042		Geographic Keyword Name
2043		Geographic Keyword Type
2044		Time Period - Structured
2045		Time Period - Textual
2046		Cross Reference Title
2047		Cross Reference Linkage
2048		Cross Reference Type
2049		Original Control Identifier
2050		Supplemental Information
 



Annex B 

GILS Core Element to USMARC Mapping

This Annex provides a mapping from GILS Core Elements to
USMARC for use by the record source and GILS servers. 
Some of these data elements consist of two or more
subelements, and this relationship is noted by the
indentation.

Implementors should consult the authoritative
documentation on USMARC found in _USMARC Format for
Bibliographic Data_.  The document is available from the
Cataloging Distribution Service at the Library of
Congress.  A full description of the USMARC fields and
available subfields within each field is in that
document.

For some elements new USMARC fields and/or subfields may
be incorporated into the USMARC format.  New fields
and/or subfields in the process of being considered for
inclusion in USMARC are noted.

In cases where the 500 Note field is repeated to carry
separate GILS Core Elements, the name of the GILS Core
Element will be included and precede the data content
for that field.  A colon will separate the GILS Data
Element name from the rest of the content in the field. 
For example,  500  Purpose: [data for this field]; 500
Agency Program: [data for this field].  Each such GILS
Core Element should be carried in separate, repeating
500 fields.

In addition to the variable length fields listed in the
mapping, a USMARC record will also include a Leader and
field 008: Fixed-Length Data Elements.  Certain
character positions in each of these fixed length fields
of a USMARC record will need to be coded specifically
for GILS.  In addition, USMARC records for GILS will
include a code in the 042: Authentication Code to
identify these USMARC records specifically as GILS
Locator Records. The following suggest values for these
fields (or parts of these fields):

Leader:  A fixed field comprising the first 24 character
positions (00-23) of each record that provides
information for the processing of the record.  For GILS
records, the following character position is
specifically relevant:

Character Position: 18 -- Descriptive cataloging form
	Value: # [i.e., blank] (Non-ISBD) 
to indicate when International Standard Bibliographic
Description is not followed.


008 Fixed Length Data Elements: Forty character
positions (00-39) containing positionally-defined data
elements that provide coded information about the record
as a whole or about special bibliographic aspects of the
item being cataloged.  For GILS records that describe
electronic information resources, the following
character position is specifically relevant:

Character Position: 26 -- Type of computer file
Values:				a	(Numeric data)
				b 	(Computer program)
				c 	(Representational)
				d 	(Document)
				e 	(Bibliographic data)
				f 	(Font)
				g	(Game)
				h 	(Sound)
				i 	(Online system or service)  
					[new code proposed]
				m 	(Combination)
				u 	(Unknown)
				z 	(Other)

042 Authentication Code
	Value: 	gils [new code proposed]

GILS Data Elements and Corresponding USMARC Tags
_GILS Data Element_				_USMARC Tag_
Title   					245$a
Control Identifier				001	
Abstract	  				520
Purpose   					500 
Originator  					710$a
Access Constraints  				506
Use Constraints		   			540
Distributor				
	Distributor Name			270$p 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Organization		270$p
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Street Address		270$a 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor City			270$b 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor State			270$c 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Zip Code			270$e 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Country			270$d 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Network Address		270$m 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Hours of Service		301$a 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Telephone			270$k 
						[proposed field]
	Distributor Fax				270$l 
						[proposed field]
Available Resource Description  		037$f 
Available Order Process  			037$c
Available Technical Prerequisites  		538
Available Time Period -- Structured		045$c
Available Time Period -- Textual  		037$n 
						[proposed field]
					(for non-electronic resource)
						856$z	
					(for electronic resource)
Available Linkage  				856$u
Available Linkage Type				856
						1stindicator/
						856$2
Point of Contact 				856$m
				     (for electronic resources)
	Contact Name				270$p 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Organization			270$p 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Street Address			270$a 
						[proposed field]
	Contact City				270$b 
						[proposed field]
	Contact State				270$c 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Zip Code			270$e 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Country				270$d 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Network Address			270$m 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Hours of Service		301$a 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Telephone			270$k 
						[proposed field]
	Contact Fax				270$l 
						[proposed field]
Record Source  					040
Date Last modified  				005
Agency Program  				500
Sources of Data  				537 
						[proposed field]
Index Terms -- Controlled  			650
Thesaurus  					650 
						1st indicator/
						650$2
Local Subject Term				653$a	
Methodology  					567
Spatial Reference
Bounding Rectangle				255$c 
	Western-most				034$d
	Eastern-most				034$e
	Northern-most				034$f
	Southern-most				034$g
Geographic Name 
	Geographic Keyword Name			651	 
	Geographic Keyword Type 		655	
Time Period -- Structured			045$c
Time Period -- Textual  			513 	
Cross Reference Title				787$t
Cross Reference Linkage  			787$w
Cross Reference Type				856 
						1st indicator/
						856$2
Original control identifier 			035
Supplemental information	  		500


USMARC Tags and Field Names 
(from USMARC Format for Bibliographic Data)
_USMARC Tag_	_Subfield_		_Field Name_
001					Control Number
005					Date and Time of Latest
					Transaction
034					Coded Cartographic 
					Mathematical Data 
			$d		Coordinates - westernmost 
					longitude
			$e		Coordinates - easternmost 
					longitude
			$f		Coordinates -northernmost 
					latitude
			$g		Coordinates -southernmost 
					latitude
035					System Control Number
037					Source of Acquisition
			$b		Source of stock
					number/acquisition
			$c		Terms of availability
			$f		Form of issue 
			$n		Note [proposed]
040					Cataloging Source
042					Authentication Code
245					Title Statement
			$a		Title
255					Cartographic Mathematical
					Data
			$c		Statement of coordinates
270			$a		Address
270			$b		City
270			$c		State or province
270			$d		Country
270			$e		Postal code
270			$k		Telephone number
270			$l		Fax number
270			$m		Electronic mail address
270			$p		Contact person
301			$a		Hours
500					General Note
506					Restrictions on Access 
					Note
513 					Type of Report and Period 
					Covered Note
520					Summary, Etc. Note
537					Source of Data Note 
					[proposed]	
538					System Details Note
540					Terms Governing Use and 
					Reproduction
					Note
567					Methodology Note
650					Subject Added Entry -- 
					Topical Term
1st indicator				Level of subject
			$2		Source of heading or term
651	 				Subject Added Entry -- 
					Geographic Name
653					Index Term -- 
					Uncontrolled
			$a		Uncontrolled term
655					Index Term -- Genre/Form
710					Added Entry -- Corporate 
					Name
			$a		Corporate name or 
					jurisdiction name as 
					entry element
787					Nonspecific Relationship 
					Entry	
			$t		Title
			$w		Record Control Number
856 					Electronic Location and 
					Access
1st indicator				Access method
			$m		Contact for access 
					assistance
			$u		Uniform Resource Locator
			$z		Nonpublic note
			$2		Source of access
 




Annex C 

Preferred Display Format for GILS Records

GILS servers will transfer records in three record
syntaxes: 

	o	USMARC
	o	Generic Record Syntax (GRS)
	o	Simple Unstructured Text Record Syntax
(SUTRS).

In SUTRS, the formatting of the record contents is
handled by the server, and the client receives a record
devoid of structure.  In USMARC and GRS, the record,
whose structure is defined by the record syntax, is
passed from the target to an orgin, and the client
software has more flexibility in processing the record
contents for  display.

The recommended guidelines in this Annex describe how
records should be displayed, whether formatted by the
server or the client (but this does not preclude display
formats in addition to the Preferred Display Format). 

_Record Organization_:  

The record should be organized so that the elements
first viewed by the user  provide adequate information
to either choose or eliminate the record from further
consideration.  These elements are: Title, Originator,
Controlled Vocabulary, Local Subject Index and Abstract.

Next in the order of presentation are elements that give
detailed information about the information resource
being described: Spatial Reference, Time Period,
Availability, Sources of Data, Methodology, Access
Constraints, Use Constraints, Point of Contact, and
Supplemental Information.

The elements describing the reason for the existence of
the data are next: Purpose and  Agency Program.

Related information resources are listed next in the
element: Cross Reference.

The final elements provide bibliographic control
information:  Control Identifier, Record Source, and
Date of Last Modification. 



_General Instructions for Formatting Full Element Set
Name Records_:

All displayable elements are to be labelled with the
full title of the field followed by a colon.  Label
mnemonics should only be used in situations where the
user can ask for an explanation of the mnemonic. 
Mnemonics should not be used in SUTRS records, since it
should be assumed that the client knows nothing about
the server and is incapable of interpreting the
mnemonics.

The subelements of constructed elements (i.e., locally
defined fields, Availability, Spatial Reference, etc.)
should be indented to reflect their association and
structure within a well-structured element.  Labels on
subelements can eliminate the redundant leading parts
(e.g., the word Available on the Availability
subelements).

In the Controlled Vocabulary element, the Thesaurus
subelement can be presented in parentheses, followed by
the Index Terms.  Multiple Index Terms should be
separated by a semi-colon and a space (e.g., Controlled
Vocabulary (MeSH): Kidney; Kidney Disease). 
Alternatively, the Thesaurus and Index Terms can be
indented under the Controlled Vocabulary label, as is
done with the other well-structured fields.  Local
Subject Terms should be separated by a semi-colon and a
space.


_Display Format for Brief Element Set Name Records_:

Brief Records consist of the Title, Control Identifier,
Originator, and Local Control Number fields.  For
display purposes, the Control Identifier and Local
Control Number can be omitted.  Brief Records may be
formatted to fit on a single line.  This may require
that that one or both of the displayed fields will be
truncated.  Truncation can be indicated with with
elipsis(...).
 

_Display Format for G Element Set Name Records_:

G Records consist of Brief Record elements and
additionally, the Cross Reference element.  For display
purposes, the guidelines for Full Records should be
followed.

 

Annex D 

GILS Schema

	
The GILS Schema describes and defines tagSets and an
Abstract Record Structure used with the Generic Record
Syntax (GRS).  The GILS Schema defines a GILS tagSet
that associates a numeric tag with one or more GILS Core
Elements.

Some GILS Core elements correspond to tags already
defined in tagSet-M and tagSet-G, and these tags are
used to identify GILS Core elements in the Abstract
Record Structure.  When the tagType is 1, the tag value
is from tagSet-M.  When the tagType is 2, the tag value
is from tagSet-G.  When the tagType is 3, the tag value
is an arbitrary string tag.  When the tagType is 4, the
tag value is from the GILS tagSet.

There are two general classes of schema elements in the
GILS Schema:

	1)  Primitive -- these elements cannot have locally
defined subelements
	2)  Constructed -- these elements have one or more
subelements any of which may be well-defined or target-
defined; in the latter case, these locally defined
subelements are identified with string tags

This Annex first presents the GILS tagSet that
identifies the element, its unique tag, and a
recommended datatype.  This is followed by the GILS
Abstract Record Structure that shows the full tag path
for each element.


GILS tagSet

_Tag_		_Element_			_Recommended Datatype_
1		controlIdentifier		InternationalString
2		streetAddress  			InternationalString
3		city				InternationalString
4		state				InternationalString
5		zipcode				InternationalString
6		hoursOfService			InternationalString
7 		resourceDescription		InternationalString
8 		technicalPrerequisites		InternationalString
9		westernMost			intUnit
10		easternMost			intUnit
11		northernMost			intUnit
12		southernMost			intUnit
13		geographicKeywordName		InternationalString
14		geographicKeywordType		InternationalString
15 		timePeriodStructured		GeneralizedTime
16 		timePeriodTextual		InternationalString
17 		linkage				InternationalString
18 		linkageType			InternationalString
19		recordSource			InternationalString
20 		controlledTerm			InternationalString
21		thesaurus			InternationalString
22		localSubjectTerm		InternationalString
23		originalControlIdentifier	InternationalString

NOTE:  The element "wellKnown" from tagSet-M (1,19) and
referred to below has the following definition:
When an element is defined to be "structured into
locally defined elements", the target may use this tag
(i.e., wellKnown) in lieu of, or along with, locally
defined tags.  For example, an element named 'title'
might be described to be "locally structured."  The
target might present the element structured into the
following subelements: 'wellKnown', 'spineTitle', and
'variantTitle', where the latter two tags are target
defined. In this case, 'wellKnown' is assumed to mean
'title'.

50			title		Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
51			purpose		Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
52			originator	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
53			accessConstraints	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
54			useConstraints		Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
55 			orderProcess	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
56 			agencyProgram	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
57 			sourcesOfData	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
58 			methodology	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
59 		supplementalInformation 	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the element wellKnown and may
also include locally defined elements.
70			availability	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: distributor,
resourceDescription, orderProcess,
technicalPrerequisites, timePeriod, linkage,
linkageType.
71 			spatialReference	Constructed as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: boundingRectangle,
geographicName.
90  		distributor		Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: name, organization,
streetAddress, city, state, zipCode, country,
networkAddress, hoursOfService, phoneNumer, faxNumber.
91			boundingRectangle	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: westernMost, easternMost,
northernMost, southernMost.
92 			geographicName		Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: geographicKeywordName,
geographicKeywordType.
93  			timePeriod	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: timePeriodStructured,
timePeriodTextual.
94 			pointOfContact	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: name, organization,
streetAddress, city, state, zipCode, country,
networkAddress, hoursOfService, phoneNumber, faxNumber.
95  		controlledVocabulary	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: indexTermsControlled,
thesaurus.
96			indexTermsControlled	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the following as well as
locally defined elements: controlledTerm.
97 			localSubjectIndex	Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include the following as well as
locally defined elements: localSubjectTerm.
98 			crossReference		Constructed  as
follows --
This element may include any of the following as well as
locally defined elements: title, linkage, linkageType.


GILS Abstract Record Structure

NOTE:  The element "bodyOfDisplay" in tagSet-G (2,9) may
be used by the target to combine into this single
element (i.e., bodyOfDisplay) one or more of the
elements from the following abstract record structure
into a display format.

_Tag_	_Element_			_Mandatory?_	_Repeatable?_
2_path_
(1,10)	rank					N		N
(1,12)	url 					N		N
(1,14) 	local control number			Y		N
(1,16)	dateOfLastModification			Y		N
(4,50)	title					Y		N
(4,1) 	controlIdentifier			Y		N
(2,6)	abstract				Y		N
(4,51)	purpose					Y		N
(4,52)	originator				Y		N
(4,53)	accessConstraints			Y		N
(4,54)	useConstraints				Y		N
(4,70)	availability				Y		Y
(4,70)/(4,90) distributor			Y		N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(2,7) distributorName		Y		N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(2,10) distributorOrganization 	Y 		N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(4,2) distributorStreetAddress 	Y 		N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(4,3) distributorCity 		Y	 	N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(4,4) distributorState 		Y	   	N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(4,5) distributorZipCode		Y	 	N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(2,16) distributorCountry		Y		N
(4,70)/(4,90)/(2,12) distributorNetworkAddress	Y		Y
(4,70)/(4,90)/(4,6) distributorHoursofService	Y		Y
(4,70)/(4,90)/(2,14) distributorPhoneNumber	Y		Y
(4,70)/(4,90)/(2,15) distributorFaxNumber	Y		Y
(4,70)/(4,7) resourceDescription		N		N
(4,70)/(4,55) orderProcess			Y		N
(4,70)/(4,8) technicalPrerequisite		N		N
(4,70)/(4,93) timePeriod			N		Y
(4,70)/(4,93)/(4,15) timePeriodStructured 	N		Y
(4,70)/(4,93)/(4,16) timePeriodTextual		N		Y
(4,70)/(4,17) linkage				N		N	
(4,70)/(4,18) linkageType			N		N
(4,94)  pointOfContact				Y		N	
(4,94)/(2,7) contactName			Y		N
(4,94)/(2,10) contactOrganization		Y		N
(4,94)/(4,2) contactStreetAddress		Y		N
(4,94)/(4,3) contactCity			Y		N
(4,94)/(4,4) contactState			Y		N
(4,94)/(4,5) contactZipCode			Y		N
(4,94)/(2,16) contactCountry			Y		N
(4,94)/(2,12) contactNetworkAddress		Y		Y
(4,94)/(4,6) contactHoursofService		Y		Y
(4,94)/(2,14) contactPhoneNumber		Y		Y
(4,94)/(2,15) contactFaxNumber			Y		Y
(4,19) recordSource				Y		N	
(4,56) agencyProgram				N		N
(4,57) sourcesOfData				N		N
(4,95) controlledVocabulary			N		Y
(4,95)/(4,96) indexTermsControlled		Y		N
(4,95)/(4,96)/(4,20) controlledTerm		Y		Y
(4,95)/(4,21) thesaurus				Y		N
(4,97) localSubjectIndex			N		N
(4,97)/(4,22)localSubjectTerm 			Y		Y
(4,58) 	methodology				N		N
(4,71) 	spatialReference			N		N
(4,71)/(4,91)	boundingRectangle		N		N
(4,71)/(4,91)/(4,9)	westernMost		N		N
(4,71)/(4,91)/(4,10)	easternMost		N		N
(4,71)/(4,91)/(4,11)	northernMost		N		N
(4,71)/(4,91)/(4,12)	southernMost		N		N
(4,71)/(4,92)	 geographicName			N		Y
(4,71)/(4,92)/(4,13)	geographicKeywordName 	Y	 	N
(4,71)/(4,92)/(4,14)	geographicKeywordType 	Y	 	N
(4,93)	timePeriod				N		Y
(4,93)/(4,15)	timePeriodStructured		N		N
(4,93)/(4,16)	timePeriodTextual		N		N
(4,98)	crossReference				N		Y	
(4,98)/(4,50)	crossReferenceTitle		Y		N
(4,98)/(4,17)  	crossReferenceLinkage  		Y		N
(4,98)/(4,18)	crossReferenceType		Y		N
(4,23) 	originalControlIdentifier		Y		N
(4,59) 	supplementalInformation			Y		N

 
Annex E

GILS Core Elements

GILS Locator Records consist of a number of GILS Core
Elements that contain information to identify and
describe Federal information resources.  The term
"mandatory" as used in this Profile applies to
administraton of the subset of GILS Locator Records that
have been identified by the record source as
participating in the GILS Core.  GILS servers are not
required to distinguish "mandatory" from other elements.  


TITLE (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This element conveys
the most significant aspects of the referenced resource
and is intended for initial presentation to users
independently of other elements. It should provide
sufficient information to allow users to make an initial
decision on likely relevance. It should convey the most
significant information available, including the general
topic area, as well as a specific reference to the
subject.

CONTROL IDENTIFIER (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This
element is defined by the information provider and is
used to distinguish this locator record from all other
GILS Core locator records. The control identifier should
be distinguished with the record source agency acronym
as provided in the U.S. Government Manual. 

ABSTRACT (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This element
presents a narrative description of the information
resource. This narrative should provide enough general
information to allow the user to determine if the
information resource has sufficient potential to warrant
contacting the provider for further information. The
abstract should not exceed 500 words in length. 

PURPOSE (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This element
describes why the information resource is offered and
identifies other programs, projects, and legislative
actions wholly or partially responsible for the
establishment or continued delivery of this information
resource. It may include the origin and lineage of the
information resource, and related information resources. 

ORIGINATOR (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This element
identifies the information resource originator, named as
in the U.S. Government Manual where applicable. 

ACCESS CONSTRAINTS (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This
element in some cases may contain the value "None." It
describes any constraints or legal prerequisites for
accessing the information resource or its component
products or services. This includes any access
constraints applied to assure the protection of privacy
or intellectual property, and any other special 
restrictions or limitations on obtaining the information
resource.  Guidance on obtaining any users' manuals or
other aids needed for the public to reasonably access
the information resource must also be included here.
 
USE CONSTRAINTS (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This
element in some cases may contain the value "None." It
describes any constraints or legal prerequisites for
using the information resource or its component products
or services. This includes any use constraints applied
to assure the protection of privacy or intellectual
property and any other special restrictions or
limitations on using the information resource. 

AVAILABILITY (Mandatory, Repeatable): This element is a
grouping of subelements that together describe how the
information resource is made available.
DISTRIBUTOR (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This subelement
consists of the following subordinate fields that
provide information about the distributor:	
		DISTRIBUTOR NAME
		DISTRIBUTOR ORGANIZATION
		DISTRIBUTOR STREET ADDRESS
		DISTRIBUTOR CITY
		DISTRIBUTOR STATE
		DISTRIBUTOR ZIP CODE
		DISTRIBUTOR COUNTRY
		DISTRIBUTOR NETWORK ADDRESS
		DISTRIBUTOR HOURS OF SERVICE
		DISTRIBUTOR TELEPHONE
		DISTRIBUTOR FAX
RESOURCE DESCRIPTION (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
subelement  identifies the resource as it is known to
the distributor. 
ORDER PROCESS (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This
subelement provides information on how to obtain the
information resource from this distributor, including
any fees associated with acquisition of the product or
use of the service, order options (e.g., available in
print or digital forms, PC or Macintosh versions), order
methods, payment alternatives, and delivery methods. 
TECHNICAL PREREQUISITES (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
subelement describes any technical prerequisites for 
use of the information resource as made available by
this distributor. 

AVAILABLE TIME PERIOD (Optional, Repeatable): This 
subelement provides the time period reference for the 
information resource as made available by this
distributor, in one of two  forms:
TIME PERIOD -- STRUCTURED: Time described using the
USMARC prescribed structure.
TIME PERIOD -- TEXTUAL: Time described textually.
AVAILABLE LINKAGE (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
subelement provides the information needed to contact an
automated system made available by this distributor,
expressed in a form that can be interpreted by a
computer (i.e., URI).  Available linkages are
appropriate to reference other locators, facilitate
electronic delivery of off-the-shelf information
products, or guide the user to data systems that support
analysis and synthesis of information. 
AVAILABLE LINKAGE TYPE (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
subelement occurs if there is an Available Linkage
described. It provides the data content type (i.e.,
MIME) for the referenced URI.

POINT OF CONTACT FOR FURTHER INFORMATION (Mandatory, Not 
Repeatable): This element identifies an organization,
and a person where appropriate, serving as the point of
contact plus methods that may be used to make contact. 
This element consists of the following subelements:
	CONTACT NAME
	CONTACT ORGANIZATION
	CONTACT STREET ADDRESS
	CONTACT CITY
	CONTACT STATE
	CONTACT ZIP CODE
	CONTACT COUNTRY
	CONTACT NETWORK ADDRESS
	CONTACT HOURS OF SERVICE
	CONTACT TELEPHONE
	CONTACT FAX.

RECORD SOURCE (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This element
identifies the organization, as named in the U.S.
Government Manual, that created or last modified this
locator record. 

DATE OF LAST MODIFICATION (Mandatory, Not Repeatable):
This element  identifies the latest date on which this
locator record was created or modified. 

AGENCY PROGRAM (*, Not Repeatable): This element
identifies the major
agency program or mission supported by the system and
should include a citation for any specific legislative
authorities associated with this information resource. 
* This element is mandatory if the resource referenced
by this GILS Core locator record is a Federal
information system.

SOURCES OF DATA (*, Not Repeatable): This element
identifies the primary sources or providers of data to
the system, whether within or outside the agency. 
* This element is mandatory if the resource referenced
by this GILS Core locator record is a Federal
information system.

CONTROLLED VOCABULARY (Optional, Repeatable): This
element is a grouping of subelements that together
provide any controlled vocabulary used to describe the
resource and the source of that controlled vocabulary:
INDEX TERMS -- CONTROLLED (Optional, Not Repeatable):
This subelement is a grouping of descriptive terms drawn
from a controlled vocabulary source to aid users in
locating entries of potential interest. Each term is
provided in the subordinate repeating field:
		CONTROLLED TERM. 
THESAURUS (Optional, Not Repeatable): This subelement
provides the reference to a formally registered
thesaurus or similar authoritative source of the
controlled index terms. Notes on how to obtain
electronic access to or copies of the referenced source
should be provided, possibly through a Cross Reference
to another locator record that more fully describes the
standard and its potential application to locating GILS
information. 

LOCAL SUBJECT INDEX (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
element is a grouping of descriptive terms to aid users
in locating resources of potential interest, but the
terms are not drawn from a formally registered
controlled vocabulary source. Each term is provided in
the repeating subelement:
	LOCAL SUBJECT TERM

METHODOLOGY (Optional, Not Repeatable): This element
identifies any specialized tools, techniques, or
methodology used to produce this information resource.
The validity, degree of reliability, and any known
possibility of errors should also be described.

SPATIAL REFERENCE (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
element is a grouping of subelements that together
provide the  geographic reference for the information
resource. Geographic names and coordinates can be used
to define the bounds of coverage. Although described
here informally, the spatial object constructs should be
as defined in FIPS 173, "Spatial Data Transfer
Standard."
BOUNDING RECTANGLE (Optional, Not Repeatable): This
subelement provides the limits of coverage expressed by
latitude and longitude values in the order:  
		WESTERN-MOST
		EASTERN-MOST 
		NORTHERN-MOST 
		SOUTHERN-MOST.

GEOGRAPHIC NAME (Optional, Repeatable): This subelement
identifies significant areas and/or places within the
coverage through two associated constructs: 
		GEOGRAPHIC KEYWORD NAME 
		GEOGRAPHIC KEYWORD TYPE.

TIME PERIOD OF CONTENT (Optional, Repeatable): This
element provides time frames associated with the
information resource, in one of two forms:
TIME PERIOD -- STRUCTURED: Time described using the
USMARC prescribed structure.
TIME PERIOD -- TEXTUAL: Time described textually.

CROSS REFERENCE (Optional, Repeatable): This element is
a grouping of subelements that together identify another
locator record likely to be of interest: 
CROSS REFERENCE TITLE (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This
subelement provides a human readable textual description
of the cross reference.
CROSS REFERENCE LINKAGE (Mandatory, Not Repeatable):
This subelement provides the machine readable
information needed to perform the access (i.e., URI). 
CROSS REFERENCE TYPE (Mandatory, Not Repeatable): This
subelement occurs if there is a CROSS REFERENCE LINKAGE
and0 provides the data content type (i.e., MIME) for the
referenced URI.

ORIGINAL CONTROL IDENTIFIER (Optional, Not Repeatable):
This element is used by the record source to refer to
another GILS locator record from which this locator
record was derived. 

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (Optional, Not Repeatable): 
Through this element, the record source may associate
other descriptive information with the GILS Core locator
